Good morning everyone.
I'm Travis Brown.
I'm the Imaging Technology Manager for
Mac OS X and I want to
welcome you to session 117,
Image Capture Framework.
You've already seen Image Capture
demonstrated on the keynote where
you can take a USB digital camera,
plug it into a USB cable and
Mac OS X will recognize that a camera
has been plugged in and will then
bring up a very lightweight image
browser to enable the user to select
which pictures they wish to download.
There's another dimension
to Image Capture and that is
the Image Capture Framework.
Underneath Image Capture there is
a set of APIs that developers can
use to make their applications
savvy with digital cameras.
So therefore you can easily take
an application such as a database
application where you might
want to give a field that could
essentially capture a camera,
an image off a digital camera
and put that in a database.
That would be possible to
do using the framework.
So there's all sorts of very interesting
possibilities for applications to
create new features for their users
in conjunction with digital cameras.
One of the real interesting points is
I want to point to some statistics is
the digital camera market is exploding.
It's one of the fastest growing
computer peripherals available.
You have an interesting statistic is
that eventually that digital cameras will
fairly soon surpass that of film cameras.
So in terms of the way users
will interact with photography
and images in the future,
it will very much be
driven by digital cameras.
So it really makes sense for your
applications to become aware of how to
work with digital cameras and add value.
An additional interesting point
that was brought up in the
keynote is that of Mac users,
60% of them have digital cameras.
And they would really love to have
a seamless integration of their
applications with their digital cameras.
So now I'd like to invite Steve Swen
on stage to continue the presentation.
Thank you, Travis.
Good morning.
Before we start talking about
image capture for Mac OS X,
let's review the current
situation on Mac OS 9.
As you know, Mac OS 9 has no system-level
input architecture implemented.
So all the major device manufacturers
have to do is shipping custom
applications and drivers and
sometimes Photoshop plug-in.
Applications will have a hard
time working with devices because
doing so requires knowledge
of device level communication.
That means you have to know
how to talk to each individual
device using a device protocol.
So Image Capture for MICOS 10,
what we're trying to do here is
provide a device level abstraction.
So that would enable the applications
and the device communicate through
this abstraction layer very easily.
It's a collection of APIs and
set of system services.
Like I said before,
it enables application easy access to
imaging devices such as digital camera.
We also provide very tight system level
integration to take advantage of other
Apple technologies such as QuickTime,
ColorSync, and Quartz.
Here's a block diagram view
of Image Capture Framework.
So you see the bottom layer, Darwin,
is the open source kernel.
Right on top of it is
the application service,
Quartz, OpenGL, and QuickTime.
Image Capture Framework
is part of Carbon Library.
However,
you can access Image Capture directly
from either Carbon applications
or Cocoa applications.
There are three major components
in Image Capture Framework.
The first one, the most critical one,
is the framework itself, its set of APIs.
We have a high-level API for
applications to use and also
a low-level API for devices.
We also ship with built-in,
a set of built-in support for
cameras using standard protocols.
I'll get to it later.
We also ship Image Capture application,
which is a lightweight application
to allow users to preview and
download images from camera.
Here is another view of
Image Capture Framework.
You see on the left hand side,
you have your camera.
Once you connect the
camera to the computer,
Image Capture will load the right
camera module for that device.
And then your application and
Image Capture application can
communicate with this camera to this
device abstraction layer and using
the Image Capture Framework APIs.
So we have built-in camera support
for four different classes of devices.
The first three are camera devices that
use protocols and so you can connect
the camera directly to the computer.
They use PDP class, digital class,
and mass storage class.
We also support a number
of removable media.
PDP class.
PDP stands for Picture Transfer Protocol.
It's also known as PEMA 15740.
PEMA is the standard organization
to find the standard.
It's an industry standard group and
including platform vendors like Apple,
Microsoft, and device manufacturers
such as Kodak and Sony.
This protocol enables full
control of camera functions.
So you can set the camera exposure
level and you can take a picture,
you can retrieve picture,
you can synchronize clock,
or even you can download music files.
It's a very powerful protocol.
It is transport independent.
The USB working group has defined
the class for the PDP device already.
And Mac OS X 10.0,
our first implementation,
supports a set of PDP commands that
would enable you to do "plug and
join operations." Typically you
go out and take a whole bunch of
pictures and you come back and plug
your camera into the computer and we
can download all the images for you.
Recent cameras from Kodak and
Sony support this protocol.
So if you want to get experience how
this camera PDP protocol works for you or
you want to test with your application,
you can get one of those Kodak
cameras like 4800 or MC3 or Sony S75.
They are on the market today.
The second class is DIGTA class.
This is a vendor-specific
protocol by Flashpoint Technology.
Some Kodak HP cameras
using this protocol.
Since it's a vendor-specific protocol,
we rely on the device name
matching to load the proper
module to support your camera.
So if your camera uses this protocol,
let us know so we can
add it into our database.
Third class is mass storage.
This is the most commonly used protocol.
It basically mounts the camera to
storage devices as a MS-DOS file
system on your desktop.
So the advantage of doing this,
it's pretty simple, easy to implement,
and it's a familiar
concept for users to use.
However, the disadvantage of that is it's
really a limited interface to a camera
because the only way to control that
is through file system commands.
So you cannot really get and
set camera-specific properties.
There's a number of removable
media we can support as well.
Compact flash, smart media, memory stick,
micro drive,
and the good old floppy disk, super disk,
recordable CD.
This is a good way to get your image
into the computer if your camera is not
USB equipped or your camera protocol
is currently not supported by MICOS 10.
As long as you can take your
storage device and find a
card reader and plug it in,
and as long as you can mount your
storage device on the file system,
we can read it.
Although the storage device
approach is easy to implement,
but since we cannot
treat it like a camera,
so we cannot ask the camera
where you store your files and
are you a camera device or not,
so we rely on a few hints.
First of all, the device has to mount
its MS-DOS file system.
And then we search for,
does it have a standard
DCF file structure?
DCF stands for
Digital Camera File Format,
which is defined by the
standard organization.
If we cannot find any of
this stuff and we look for,
is this one of the non-standard file
structure we stored in our own database,
so we try to match that.
So if you have a file structure
which is not standard,
not using MS-DOS file system
or DCF file structure,
or even if you do use a
standard file structure,
but if you store the images
outside the DCIM folder,
which is by default the
folder stores still images.
However, if you have movies and sound
files stored in other folders,
please let us know so we can make
sure we search through your folder.
And again, unlike PDB camera,
we cannot ask the camera for image
files and sound files and audio files,
video files.
So we rely on some standard file
formats that we recognize to download.
Currently,
mass storage interface will support JPEG,
TIFF, and GIF for still image formats.
Video format will support QuickTime,
MPAC,
and audio file format will support MP3.
Again, if you
If you store files,
the file type not on the list,
but it's important to
your camera function,
please let us know so we can
include it in the download.
So if you're a camera vendor,
there's three things to remember.
First of all, use standard protocols.
PDP or mass storage,
both excellent choice.
You don't have to worry
about getting the driver,
getting the support, installing software.
User experience will be great.
Second one is also very important.
Send your prototypes to us
to ensure compatibility.
It's very important.
Send early, send often,
send multiple copies.
Engineers can be bribed.
And the last one,
if you have a custom file
structure or a file system,
make sure you send us the file structure
map so we can include it in our database.
Third part of Image Capture Framework
is Image Capture Application.
This is a lightweight application
to allow users to browse and
download images from camera devices.
And also, you can define a set of hot
plug actions and automatic tasks
to customize your workflow.
We also ship a number of scripts
to allow the user to do common
tasks such as build web page.
Here's the UI for
Image Capture application.
The top part is camera.
It shows you what camera device
you have currently connected.
You can have multiple cameras
connected at the same time.
The middle part defines hot plug
actions and automatic tasks.
And the last part is you specify where
you want to download your files to.
One thing about download synchronization,
camera devices are increasing in
resolution at an amazing rate.
And you can find cameras with 3, 4, 5,
even 6 megapixels on the market today.
So you can imagine the file size
is getting bigger and bigger.
So we try to avoid unnecessary
downloads by relying on a
couple of things for MICOS 10.
First of all, we use file name.
And if we find the camera
file you tried to download,
and you have identical file name
in the download folder already,
and those are the size of these
two files in the camera and in
the download folder are identical,
we will skip that.
In the future,
we will use the capture date
in addition to file name,
stored in metadata to
do the synchronization.
So if you're application developers,
make sure you try to
preserve the metadata,
don't strip it out.
And if you're camera vendors,
because the serial number,
the picture serial number
is part of the file name,
so make sure you don't recycle
the numbers until you run
out of all the combination.
Hot Plug Actions.
Hot Plug Action is defined to
be when you connect your camera,
what do you want to see happen?
There are three possibilities here.
The first one is when
you plug in the camera,
we open the Image Capture
application for you.
So you will see the same
UI I showed you earlier.
The user can browse and download
and select images to download.
That's the default behavior.
or you can select
automatically download all.
The advantage of doing that is
you can automate the system.
When you plug in the camera,
there's no UI will come up.
All the files on the camera would
be transferred to the specified
download folder automatically.
And if you specify an automated task,
and that one will get invoked and all
the downloaded files will be passed to
that application to do post-processing.
One thing to point out is even
if you select the default,
you can come up with a UI and you can
select which files you want to download.
And you can also specify the
post-processing automatic task.
And after downloading,
it will call that automatic task as well.
So the third action you
can specify is none.
Basically,
there's nothing on Mac OS X 10.0,
the first release.
The idea here is the user may want
to use his own favorite applications
to handle this camera plug-in event.
So we will not invoke the Image Capture
application if you select this one.
And in the future,
we want to make this more useful.
You can actually select an
application on the launch when
the hot plug event happens.
And we call that application for you.
Automatic task, like I said before,
this is a post-processing.
After you've downloaded your images,
you specify this automatic
task and we will call it after
we download all the images.
They can be Apple scripts, applications,
or aliases.
Currently,
you have to store these things in
the Library Image Capture Scripts
folder so we can pick it up in the
UI we show you which one to select.
In the future,
we're going to put it into a
preference so you can select it.
You don't have to put it into
this location to get picked up.
So one advantage of automatic
task is even though today
Not too many applications
are image capture savvy.
When I say that, it's really,
they don't really have
the API calling API,
calling the image capture API to do
the stuff like getting the pictures
downloaded or sending the pictures,
do all this stuff.
But however,
if your application can receive an open
event with all these files passed in,
and you are benefiting from
Image Capture Framework already,
because in that scenario,
the user can select your application
as post-processing event.
Future directions for
image capture application.
There are a few areas we try to improve.
One is metadata browser.
Metadata is the per image information
Such things as exposure level,
your color space, your creation date,
the size, resolution,
and all this good stuff.
And it helps the application to use
the metadata down the stream to do
better image management and processing.
We also want to improve in the browser,
you can do per image
rotation and deletion.
Instead of using a script,
you can actually rotate it into
place and delete without downloading.
Third part is we're going
to add a preference panel.
Preference panel would
allow you to select,
like I said before,
which application you want to see get
launched when you plug in the camera.
And also you can specify what
are the automatic tasks you want
to see in your user pop-up menu.
A couple words on scanner
support for Mac OS X.
Image Capture will support
scanner devices in the future.
However,
Make sure you port your scanner
to MicroStand today instead
of waiting for image capture.
Couple easy ways to do that.
First of all,
you can port your Mac OS 9 scanner
application to Carbon or to Mac OS X.
That's probably the least
effort involved in some cases.
Or you can support your scanner
device using Twain interface.
And just yesterday we had this Twain
announcement that Twain organization
is porting Twain DSM to Mac OS X.
So if you like to use
the Twain interface,
you can write a Twain DS for
your scanner device and shipping
that for Mac OS X for now.
And we will figure out a way to reach the
back-end compatibility once we support
scanner device in image capture natively.
So although I know that you guys
probably seen the Image Capture
demo many times this week,
but hopefully we show
you something different.
I want to introduce my colleague,
John Nagy,
and to come up here to give you a
tour of Image Capture and a couple
special things we did for you.
Okay, thanks Steve.
I'm John Nagy.
I'm one of the image capture engineers.
And I'm going to give you a
demo of how image capture works,
kind of from a user standpoint.
There you go.
Does this still work?
This one turned on?
Okay.
I'm going to give you a demo of
how Image Capture works from a
user standpoint and then sort
of along the way show you where,
as a developer,
you can write applications that fit in
at kind of one of two different places.
So, Image Capture is all
about connecting devices,
so I've got a camera here.
And I'm going to put it in
PC connect mode and plug it in.
So you see the Image Capture app
just launched by itself here.
And like Steve was saying,
the reason it did that is because it's
set to open Image Capture application
on the hot plug when it's plugged in.
So you can think of these hot
plug actions as what happens
when the camera is connected.
You can also think of them as how to
select which files you want to download.
If you have the application open up,
then the user can either download
some of them or download all of them
with a UI for setting preferences.
Download all, there's no UI.
The app doesn't come up.
All you see is a little progress
bar with icons and the file name.
And the images are downloaded.
Or none, nothing happens.
Connect the camera, nothing happens.
So again, from a developer standpoint,
this app, Image Capture application,
you could, if you wanted to,
write an app that did something that
would take the place of this application.
That's kind of the lowest level to get in
there and do something with the images.
You can use the API to get
notifications of when the camera is
connected and then bring up your own
UI that did whatever you wanted to.
So that's the first place
to kind of slide in here.
So hot plug action.
See at the top here, there's a,
as far as the application
that we did to do this.
You've got a pop-up of
the different devices.
If you had multiple devices,
you could pick which one
you wanted to download from.
Download folders.
On Mac OS X,
Go ahead and show you,
in case you don't have Mac OS X.
But you should.
In every user's home directory,
There's a pictures folder, music folder,
and a movies folder.
So that's just there by default.
Although it's called Image Capture,
some devices also, like Steve said,
can take pictures or store MP3s.
So when the Image Capture
app downloads these files,
it'll sort each file
type in the right folder.
So pictures go in the Pictures folder,
movies go in the Movies folder,
and MP3s in the Music folder.
So that's what that radio button means.
User can also select some other
folder by clicking this button
and picking a different folder.
So hot plug actions is
which files to download.
Download folders is where they go.
And automatic task is what
you want to do with the files
after they've been downloaded.
This is pretty straightforward.
It's basically any app that
you can drag files onto.
So, you know,
you could drag an alias to Photoshop,
put it in this list.
After the images are downloaded,
they all open up in Photoshop.
Or you can have something more complex
that was really designed to open
multiple images at the same time.
So we shipped a bunch of apps
that the user can choose from.
These are all Apple scripts that
have been saved as applications.
But you could put any kind of
application that accepts multiple files
being dragged onto it in this list.
But for now,
I'm going to choose the format 3 by 5.
And it's going to build a series
of web pages with images all
scaled down and sized to fit,
laid out on a page so
you can print them out.
I'm going to download some and pick
which ones I want to print out here.
There's two views.
There's an icon view like this,
and there's a list view that gives
you a little more information.
Probably in the future we'll have
more of the EXIF data over here,
but for now it's just
image and file size.
So I'm going to pick four of these here.
Image Capture Drive
Actually, you know,
let me open up the pictures folder.
Just so you can see him show up.
So you get the icon, file name,
progress bar.
Now once they finish downloading,
it's going to launch this
AppleScript application.
And the app is going to go through with
each image and figure out if it's wider
than it is tall or taller than it is wide
and then sort it in the various pages.
It generates these web pages here.
So you can open this up in Explorer.
Let me turn off some of
these extra bars here.
So you can think of this as
being just a sheet of paper.
I picked four because you can fit
four 3x5s on a single sheet of paper.
If I'd selected six images,
there would be four on this page
and then two on another page,
so you just print on each one.
Explorer is really nice because
they have kind of a nice print
preview set up where you can...
Adjust the settings so you
print at the full size.
Turn off headers and footers
and turn on print wide pages.
Make sure the printer is turned on.
Nice glossy paper.
So I'm using photo paper,
so I'm going to go in here
and set that so it looks nice.
Photo
hit print.
So that's it.
Now what's nice about Explore
is that even though on screen it
looks like they're pretty small,
it looks like 72 DPI,
when it gets printed out it will
use the original image data.
So you're not limited to 72 DPI,
it will use the full image size
when it prints so you get nice,
high resolution photos.
So that's an example of an
application that is designed to
work with multiple files called
from the Image Capture application.
And that's the second place that as a
developer you can write apps that go in.
That's sort of the lighter weight,
maybe a little more user friendly,
cohesive UI for users.
It's to write an app that deals with
multiple files and have the user make an
alias and put it in that scripts folder.
So I'll show you how that works.
The scripts folder
is in Library Image Capture Scripts.
Now those called scripts,
you can really think of it as, you know,
applications.
It doesn't have to be a script.
It can be any kind of application.
And you can add to this by just making
an alias and putting an alias in here.
I've got this app called Add to
Database that Werner wrote as
an example of what you might do.
So I'm going to add an
alias to the scripts folder.
And now when I launch Image Capture App,
It shows up in the pop-up here.
So I'm going to select that.
And pick some more images.
You see when the camera first,
when the app first launches,
it gets all the file names first.
And once it has all the file names,
it goes through and
gets all the thumbnails.
So the thumbnails are actually...
It's not having to get the whole
image file and shrink it down.
They're actually EXIF thumbnail
tag inside each image,
so that's why it's pretty
quick to get the thumbnails.
So I'm going to pick some images here.
Say these eight.
So again, it's going to download.
So what this application does
is it works with FileMaker Pro,
and it adds each file to
a FileMaker Pro database.
And it extracts and puts in the database
the EXIF data that's in each image.
Turns out that all the images,
all the cameras that we've used are
really great because they put this
EXIF data in with the image file.
As a user,
you might not even know what's in
there because a lot of apps don't
really show the data in there.
But there's all kinds
of good stuff in there.
Whether the flash was turned on or not,
the exposure time,
all kinds of really useful information.
So this application puts
that all in a database.
Once you have it in the database,
in FileMaker you can use different
layouts to see as much or as
little information as you want.
Here's one layout that just has
the pretty basic information:
thumbnail, date,
what kind of camera it came from,
the exposure,
and whether the flash was on or not.
There's another layout here
that shows more information.
[Transcript missing]
So here's the page that got
printed out and of course you
can't see it from back there,
but it looks pretty good.
So a couple of other things that
are kind of nice about Mac OS X from
an image capture standpoint is
You can change the size of icons.
You can make icons really big.
So like this pictures folder here.
If I put it in icon mode,
Open this up and go to View Options.
Say, keep range by name.
I can turn this icon size up pretty high.
And then just in the finder
you get a nice preview of
what the image looks like.
That's pretty convenient.
And then the kind of second tip
about Image Capture is that you can
customize the toolbar in Mac OS X.
Do Customize Toolbar.
And you can add, let's see where it is,
pictures.
There are buttons for
your pictures folder,
your movies folder,
and your music folder.
So you can add that to the toolbar.
And then no matter where you are,
by clicking the pictures,
you can go right to your pictures folder.
It's kind of nice.
So that was an example
of two applications.
One of them is an
Apple script that we ship,
users can use to print out 3x5s.
A second one is one that Werner
did that extracts EXIF data,
puts it in a FileMaker Pro database.
And so that, you know,
maybe that gives you an idea of
some kind of apps you can write
that deal with multiple files.
So with that,
I'll hand it over to Werner.
Hello, my name is Werner Neuprand and I'm
one of the image capture engineers.
By now, you should have a good idea
about what image capture is and
you actually saw it in action.
And so let's look at what you
would have to do in order to
use image capture from your
So first, I'm going to talk about
the application level APIs.
That means write an application
that uses image capture and
gets some data from a device.
Before we actually look at the APIs,
just a few words about the
whole idea how to use it.
So we have an object-based API,
which means we are dealing
with objects and properties.
More on that later.
Steve was mentioning we
are device independent.
That means whether it's
a scanner or a camera,
scanners in the future, cameras now,
we support it.
And we are transport independent.
So USB devices, FireWire devices,
and whatever you can think of.
When we talk about objects,
all the ICA objects,
it's an opaque structure.
So you use that as reference
whenever you want to access data,
data from the camera.
So objects,
they do have types and subtypes.
They basically identify the object.
Objects can contain properties.
Properties, the ICAE properties,
that's where the actual data is stored.
And properties as well have types
and subtypes to get identified.
So the symbols model is we have one
object that may contain another object,
reference to another object,
and a property.
We always have a very special
object at the beginning of a tree,
and that's our device list.
That's always there.
Even if you don't have a camera
or other device connected,
you always have the device list.
In this case,
we are showing multiple devices.
So two cameras,
two scanners are connected.
And what will happen?
Well,
if we have a closer look at camera two,
you will see we have three images there.
And we will have some
properties for the device.
For example, the name.
You saw that in the
Image Capture application.
We had the name and an icon.
So the icon, of course,
is also a property.
Clock could be a property.
We could have a whole
bunch of properties.
And that's the same thing for the images.
So images have properties,
like the image data.
They have a thumbnail property.
They have the image width and height,
the image name.
All these are properties.
So if you look at that tree now,
then you will see in order
to get to the image data,
the only direct access point
you have is the device list.
So from the device list,
you have to go to the device.
From the device, you go to the images.
And from the images,
you go to the image data.
So device objects,
you access those via the device list.
The image objects via the device object.
And once you have device object,
you can iterate over all the properties.
First you get the images and then
iterate over all the properties
to get to the actual image data.
All our APIs have two parameters.
They all take a parameter
block and a callback,
a completion block.
Good idea to always clear,
so do a memset of the
whole parameter block,
fill in whatever you want
to pass into that call,
make the call,
and then depending on whether you
make it synchronous or asynchronous,
extract the data.
So that's how an API looks like.
So it always starts with an ICA,
the Image Capture Architecture,
and returns an OS error.
You pass in a parameter
block and a completion block.
Now, for the completion block,
that's how you decide whether
you want to make your calls
synchronous or asynchronous.
If you pass in nil as completion block,
then it's a synchronous call,
which means you make the call,
the camera will do
whatever you tell it to do,
comes back, and you have the result.
Asynchronous calls,
you specify your completion block,
you do the image capture,
you call the image capture API,
it immediately returns
and then it will call,
whenever the data is
available from the device,
it will call your completion block.
Actually, that's what we do in the
Image Capture application.
So all our calls are asynchronous.
So the nice thing about that is you
get a pretty snappy application.
So it's working.
The UI is updating without having
the application to be multi-threaded.
So it's a single-threaded
application and it still feels like,
yeah, it's responsive.
So the completion proc
has a single parameter,
and that's the ICA header that
you have to typecast to whatever
call result you're expecting.
We will have a look at that in a bit,
so I will go to show you how to write
a small image capture application,
and then we will look at that.
If you look at all our APIs,
we can group them into
more or less three groups.
One is we have some basic functions,
then we have APIs that deal with objects,
and then of course the APIs that
deal with the properties
to get to the real data.
So the basic functions,
we have very important accessor
and that's get the device list.
So remember that was the top of the tree.
That's the only device
that's always there even if
there's no camera connected.
And then we have an object send message.
That's very useful whenever
you want to send a message to,
for example, the device,
like take a picture.
You can also send
messages to image objects,
like delete this image object.
And of course,
what you want to do-- and you saw that,
you will see it whenever you look
at the Image Capture application--
if you launch the application
and no device is connected,
then you connect the device,
then it updates automatically the UI.
And that's done by using the
ICA register event notification.
So you get notification,
once you register to that,
whenever a device is
connected or disconnected.
So once again, the device list,
the ICI eCAT device list gives you
the object for the device list.
And you can send a message to a device.
Take a picture.
The Object-Related Functions.
Well, it's quite clear whenever you
look at the device object tree,
you have to walk through the tree.
And that's basically
what the device--what the
object-related functions do.
So you want to find out how many
children do you have for a given object.
So if you look at the device list,
in that case, it would return a two,
meaning we have two devices connected.
For this second device,
index one-- so we start
counting with zero-- index one,
we would get back a child count of three,
meaning we have three objects,
three images in that case.
As I said before,
each object has a type and subtype,
and we can get to that
using the Get Object Info.
So the type for the first
one would be a device.
That's the device list.
And then we have the device camera,
device scanner, and all those.
And for the images or sound files,
we would have an identifier saying, well,
it's an image, it's an audio,
it's a movie.
If we want to get to a specific object,
like in that case we already
captured the device and we want
to get to the second image.
Well, first of all,
it's a good idea to do a get child count.
Find out how many images do we have.
And if you want to
iterate over all those,
then we would use the get nth child.
Get nth child takes an index and
returns you an object reference.
Once you have an object,
you can always get to
the top of the tree.
To the device list using
the Get Device List call,
or you can get to the top of the
device-specific object by using
the Get Root of Object that will
always give you the camera device.
Get Parent of Object might be useful
if you have a directory structure,
which we are currently
not supporting in our UI.
Currently everything is flattened out.
Also the PTP and Class 1 drivers
currently flatten out everything.
But in theory,
you could have like a directory object,
and all those children can
access the directory object by
using the Get Parent of Object.
We have Revcons that you can set and get.
And then we have a whole bunch of
setters and getters for properties.
Same deal.
If we have an object and we want
to get the number of properties,
then we just do an ICA get property count
that returns us the number of properties.
And to access the property,
you could do that in two ways.
One way would be you can
iterate over all the properties.
So get nth object, pass in 0, 1,
and so on.
Or if you know exactly
what you're looking for,
like in this case,
you could just look for the image width.
And instead of now looping
over all properties,
you would just do a get property by
type and pass in image width as the
OS type that you're looking for.
You can get information about
properties using Get Property Info,
and you can get and
set the property data.
In Mac OS 10.10.0,
the set property data is not implemented.
But we will do that in the future.
So you will be able to modify properties
like upload images or sound files.
Get property data.
This call is basically the way
to get to the actual image data
or thumbnail data or whatever
you have stored in properties.
Then,
in order to navigate around a bit again,
there's the Get Root of Property,
which gives you the device object,
and Get Parent of Property,
that's the object that
contains this property.
[Transcript missing]
We have an application
called Image Capture Browser.
And what it does is just
looking for devices,
objects, properties.
In this case,
I was doing the Get Device list
and then get the number of
objects for that device list.
Well, we have only one.
So there's one camera connected.
So I select that camera.
And then you see all the
information flows in.
Now, this is, again,
an example of writing it
in an asynchronous mode.
So as you saw, just clicking on it,
it really updates the UI immediately.
And the data that's not available just
flows in whenever it gets available.
So that's the camera that John was using.
So with all the images, I can,
for example, get the volume label.
So it's an HP PhotoSmart.
The T is missing.
That's a bug in the 1.0 version
where you have to pass in whenever
you get to the volume label,
not the actual length that you have
to have to increment it by one in
order to get the null termination.
So you can get the camera icon so
it shows you the number of bytes.
You can click on an image
and then it will display.
We have currently four properties.
That's the image data, thumbnail,
file name, and file size.
So if I click on the file name,
so I would get the name 13
bytes for that property.
Thumbnail.
[Transcript missing]
Switching over to the project builder,
what I'm trying to do now is show
you how easy it is to write an
application that uses image capture.
So we start from scratch.
And we look, oh, actually,
I have a small application
already prepared.
And you'll see it's almost from scratch.
So I switch over to the resources.
So it's a small Cocoa application,
and all it has is the main.
And then let's go to
the interface builder.
And then, well,
you see everything is just empty.
And I could now start switching over
and adding an image view to do that.
And what this small application
should do is just capture
thumbnails from the camera.
Well, I could do that,
but what I also could do is I can go to
Preferences and actually use a palette,
and that's the ICAview palette.
So you'll see that.
And all I do is I track that over.
I saved the app.
I didn't change anything in here.
Now let's see what
happens if we run this.
It launches and it shows the thumbprint.
Well, actually it does more.
So it has a slider and it
can now go through all the
images that are in the device.
And that was without writing
a single line of code.
Well, not quite.
Well,
another thing that they can do is like,
it allows you to track the image.
So whenever you are in the mail,
you can just track that over to
mail and then insert it there.
So let's quit this one and let's
see where the magic really lies.
If we go to the classes,
we see there's an ICA view, .h and .m.
Now actually,
if you look at the documentation
for Interface Builder and how to
write interface builder palettes,
it tells you that there are three
ways to actually include the code.
One is, in your project you
just have the sources.
That's what I do.
The other one would be you
just use the precompiled files,
the .o files, and add those.
or create a small framework and use that.
Well, in this case,
since I want to show you how
this view actually works,
I was including the sources.
So let's go to this one and
have a look at the sources.
If we do awakeFromNib,
that's the call actually
that you will get whenever
your application is launched,
when the Nib file is loaded.
What I'm doing here,
that's a tricky thing
because I want to work...
[Transcript missing]
And initializing the view
is actually very simple.
Because all I do is--
All I do is I call register
event notification.
I want to get notified when a
device is connected and when
a device is disconnected.
Then, well, that's where we are not
quite to the standards.
So the best way would actually be to get
the thumbnail for the thumbnail data,
get the size of the property.
That's something in the property info.
So you would know how big of a thumbnail
do I really have in that camera.
Well, in this case,
I know it's 128 by 128,
so I'm cheating a bit.
And then, after allocating this buffer,
I'm doing a re-scan for devices.
So let's look at the first part,
register event notification.
So what we do,
so we have an ICA register event
notification parameter block.
And as I told you,
it's a good idea to do a BAM set first,
so clear it out.
And then I set the RefCon.
For the header to the self, well,
in this case, it's not needed because,
as you can see down
here on the call itself,
I'm doing a synchronous call.
So RevCon might be nice, but not needed.
I pass in as object null,
which means for the event notification,
means notify me on all object changes.
So I'm not interested
in a specific object,
but all.
And then the notified
type that got passed in,
which was the device
added or device removed.
So just make the call and that's it.
Now the rescan--
like here.
So last thing we did in our
initialization was re-scan for devices.
Re-scan for devices is also
pretty straightforward.
What it does, well first,
if we never got initialized.
So remember,
I did not have a single line of code
that I created for that project that
was outside the view definition.
So I did not initialize the view,
did not do anything.
So what I have to do is now have
the image view that's in the snip
file connected to the slider.
That's what I'm doing here.
And then, if we never did get
the device list before,
actually, then I will get it and
just keep reference to it.
So, getting the device list.
Again,
I have a parameter plot that I clear.
And then I call getDeviceList and
do that again in a synchronous way,
so passing null as a completion block.
So the device list will be set inside
this getDeviceList parameter block.
Now, if we did get a device list,
what I want to do is I want to find
out how many devices are connected.
So I would just go ahead and--
Pass in as the object
that I'm interested in,
how many children do we have?
That's the device list in that case.
So pass that in, get child count.
If the child count is zero,
so we have no cameras connected,
then I just call my no device found,
which would just dim the slider
and bring up a generic icon.
Get nth child.
Well, what I do is I want to
get the first camera.
So this very simple app just
looks at the first camera,
index zero,
and then tries to get the camera.
So
The device.
So if we did get the device,
well actually, yeah, this one first.
So if we have no device,
then we just take a predefined TIFF file,
ICA ImageView TIFF,
and display that inside our NSU.
So if we did get the device,
If we did get a device,
then what we have to do is find
out how many images do we have.
So again, we have a
Get Child Count parameter block,
and we clear it.
We set the object we are
interested in to the first device,
and then we just call Get Child Count.
So how many images or
movie files do we have?
We get the number back, save that in